# Midterm for CMPSC102

## Assigned: Monday, 18 March 2024, 2:30pm

## Expiration Date: Monday, 18 March 2024, 5:30pm 
+ All commits are to be completed by this time.
+ Time extensions are not possible
---

## TODO: Add Your Name Here

## Re-type the sentence "I adhered to the Allegheny College Honor Code while completing this examination."

TODO: You must retype the sentence here.

**IMPORTANT:** If you do not type the required sentence then the course
instructor will not know that you adhered to the Allegheny College Honor Code
while completing the executable examination.

## Introduction

All students in CMPSC102 (Discrete Structures) are to take this midterm exam. To
fulfill this requirement, students are to modify the source code according to the
line instructions inside of the Nine (9) Python source code files in the `source/`
directory.

### Fixing Code

Each program will have areas of missing code that students are to complete. At each 
line of code that students are to amend to create working code, there will be instructions
about what is expected. Please be sure to follow these instructions and not to alter
any other code other than that which is suggested by the TO-DO comments. As the student is
working it is expected that he or she will be often committing work.

### Questions

If you have questions about this examination, please see the course
instructor during the examination time period. You must read all of the
instructions in this file before starting the executable examination. You must
also abide by all of the instructions provided inside of this file when you are
taking the executable examination.

## Honor Code

+ You **must** adhere to the Honor Code throughout your completion of the examination
+ You **must** answer all of the questions in the examination using your own source code and documentation
+ You **must** use your laptop computer and the Python development tools installed on your laptop
+ You **may** use any software development tools that are available to you through your laptop
+ You **may** use any automated code and/or documentation generation tools to which you have access
+ You **must** cite the source of any program code or documentation generated by any software tool
+ You **must** cite any references that you consult to aid you in completing this examination
+ You **may not** discuss any aspect of the examination with anyone except the course instructor
+ You **may not** modify any part of the provided source code with comments that prohibit modification
+ You **may not** modify any part of the provided `gatorgrade.yml` file in the root of this repository

**IMPORTANT**: All students in this course are obligated to adhere to the
Allegheny College Honor Code throughout the completion of this examination. If
the instructor detects that a student has committed a likely violation of the
Allegheny College Honor Code, then he will file a report with the Dean of
Students Office and furnish all details of the likely violation. Please make
sure that you review the [Allegheny College Honor
Code](https://sites.allegheny.edu/about/honor-code/) before you start to take
this examination.

---

## Project Assessment

The grade that a student receives on this assignment will have the following components.

+ **Mastery of Technical Knowledge and Skills [up to 100%]**: Students will receive their
assignment grade when their program implementations reveal that they have mastered all of
the technical knowledge and skills developed during the completion of this assignment. As a
part of this grade, the instructor will assess aspects of the programming including, but
not limited to, the completeness and the correctness of the program and the use of
effective source code comments.

## GatorGrade

For immediate feedback on submissions, we will be using Gator Grade to inform the student of
missing components in the submission. As you submit, you will notice that there is a thick
red X that will change to a green check mark when all components have been included in the
submission. You are encouraged to click on the red X to find a listing of the components to
address.

You can check the baseline writing and commit requirements for this lab assignment by running
department's assignment checking `gatorgrade` tool. To use `gatorgrade`, you first need to
make sure you have Python3 installed (type `python --version` to check). If you do not have
Python installed, please see:

+ [Setting Up Python on Windows](https://realpython.com/lessons/python-windows-setup/)
+ [Python 3 Installation and Setup Guide](https://realpython.com/installing-python/)
+ [How to Install Python 3 and Set Up a Local Programming Environment on Windows 10](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-python-3-and-set-up-a-local-programming-environment-on-windows-10)

Then, if you have not done so already, you need to install `gatorgrade`:

+ First, [install `pipx`](https://pypa.github.io/pipx/installation/)
+ Then, install `gatorgrade` with `pipx install gatorgrade`

Finally, you can run `gatorgrade`: `gatorgrade --config config/gatorgrade.yml`

Note: If your computer does not support the execution of the tools that GatorGrader uses to
check this file, then you can rely on the execution of each tool inside of GitHub Actions,
thereby ensuring that your code adheres all standards of quality that are expected of an
engineered software project.

## Seeking Assistance

Only the instructor is permitted to answer questions about this midterm exam. 